what's going on everyone welcome to this
the seventh video in an
eight part series on how to launch a
podcast i'm so happy you've joined me
for this one
i am going to be talking about how to
edit
audio for your podcast but before we get
into that
if you haven't already checked the other
videos out in this series
video number one i talk about why you
should launch a podcast
in the second video i talk about the
prep that is needed before you launch
your own podcast series
number three i talk about what equipment
you need to launch a podcast
in the fourth video i talk about what
makes a great script and why scripts are
important to help
guide you through whether it's your
youtube interview series or your podcast
whatever content you're producing
why scripts are important number five is
how you lock down a great interview
in the last video number six i talked
about things to
think about when you're actually
recording or about to record
or prepping your guest for the episode
and like i said in this video it is
about editing the audio before i jump
into these tips it's important to know
that editing audio
in my opinion is one of the most
difficult
things about starting a podcast and if
you talk about those barriers to entry
the editing process may be that barrier
that prevents a lot of people
from getting into starting their own
podcast
editing audio comes down to two things
it either takes time
or money so if you are someone who is
fortunate enough to be in a position
where you have
the finances where you can hire out
somebody to do that editing for you
and you don't want the headache of
learning how to do it then by all means
there is nothing wrong with that
do that hire it out have somebody else
do it
it is worth the investment because it
does take some time
and there's a learning curve to editing
audio especially if you don't have any
background
doing that or editing video or anything
along those lines
but if you're like i was i didn't have
that luxury of
paying somebody else to edit the audio
so i learned how to do it myself
what i want to tell you though is i just
said it was super hard but it's doable
there are so many resources out there
hopefully
this eight part series has been helpful
for you on the podcast journey
but there are so many other youtube
videos that are really helpful when it
comes
to editing audio and they can break
through different steps
whether use you're using adobe audition
or you're using a different program
that really talk about some of the
things that you should do
and you should consider when editing
audio this video is going to be about
my experience what i use what i do
to the audio in two different examples
and i've talked about this throughout
the series i have two podcasts
one is through my work the re max hustle
podcast where we interview real estate
agents and broker owners
and other people we had harry mack a
freestyle rapper on once that was a cool
episode
and the other podcast slash youtube
interview series because
it's primarily youtube interview but we
strip the audio from that and have a
podcast
that's about crypto it's called show me
the crypto it's about cryptocurrencies
and blockchain technology
and in that example we're less worried
about
the audio quality in terms of things
like
breath noise and oz and um's and all of
those things
so this should give you two examples of
how strict you want to edit and how
clean you want that audio sounding
re max hustle podcasts were really
focused on making it
sound crisp and clear the other example
it's a little less so so hopefully one
of these solutions works
for you if you are using a different
program
if you can't afford adobe audition no
worries
there are so many other resources out
there that can help you with your
program
check out one of them and then come back
to this series and make sure you watch
that eighth and final video
if you are planning on using audition
here are a couple things that have
worked for me
so in the last video i talked a little
bit about whether you're doing an
interview in person or if you're doing
it remotely through something like
zencaster or
zoom but in either of these situations
you want to record the audio
into a wav file the wav file is a little
bit higher quality
than an mp3 and mp3 is what your
final podcast product is going to be in
but you want the wav file coming into
your working
adobe audition file that you're going to
be actually
treating and editing the audio on so you
bring
in the two wav files into adobe audition
and i like using their podcast template
where it gives you about four
different layers where you can if you
have an intro that was done by
somebody on fiverr you can bring that in
at the very beginning and if you have a
commercial you can put that on
maybe the third layer and then you have
audio of the host on layer one and then
audio of the guest on layer two
so with every interviewer episode i do i
do four
things to the audio the first is i do
noise reduction
so i capture what is called the noise
print
of the audio and i try to find somewhere
where there was no
sound going so if i hit that record
button and it's a face to face interview
before i start talking right away and
the guest starts talking i hit record
and i let silence happen for a couple of
seconds
and that gives me just a little window
where i can take
that little sound clip and that is the
one
that i am going to capture a noise print
because there are room sounds that we
might not be
aware of but maybe it's a fan that is
humming or something along those lines
they're happening and it might be
distracting for the audience so you're
taking that little clip where nobody is
talking
and then you're going to capture the
noise print and then you're going to
select
the entire audio clip and you're going
to do the noise reduction process
on the screen you're going to be seeing
the levels that i do it to i'm by no
means saying that this is the only way
to do
it but these are the levels that i like
to use and what seem to work for me
the second step i take in treating the
audio while still the whole clip
is selected is i do the 20 bands
option and i watched a youtube video
that was how to create great
sound so i can't take the credit for all
of these steps but these were the levels
that were suggested
through that video so you'll see them on
the screen
where i select the different levels to
and that is
the levels i treat for the entire host
audio and i do the same for the guest
audio as well this whole process
i'm going through for the host audio i'm
going to duplicate this process a second
time
for the guest audio the third step is
the single band compressor
again these were levels that i found
through my research on youtube videos
and they have seemed to work for me
and the final step is a normalized
process
where i'm bringing all the audio to a
certain level so a certain decibel level
and it's going to bring everything
consistent so i don't have those really
really loud sounds and then really
really quiet sounds afterwards
it all sort of equalizes and brings it
within a certain decibel range
i am not an audio expert so if you are
watching this and you are thinking
wait you are missing so much or you're
not explaining that correctly
my apologies but like i said i was a
beginner when it came to podcasting
and this was the information i learned
so i wanted to share it to all of you
of this editing process from there i go
through
and when it's the re max hustle podcast
i'm really particular so i bring down
things like
breath noise which seems crazy but i
just like the sound of that really
smooth from sentence to sentence most
listeners won't notice that they won't
be distracted by
things like breath noise because that's
pretty natural but it depends
what style you're going for with your
interviews in some interviews i even
eliminate things like awes and um's i
drag that little sound wave and i bring
it down
all the way which you can see me doing
right now on the screen that helps
eliminate
the awes and um's and again it is
something your guest maybe
he or she won't even notice that you did
it but
they may be appreciative of it if they
say um or ah
every single sentence it's not realistic
especially if it's in the middle of a
sentence
but here and there when it's in the
middle so let's say they have a gap of
10 seconds where they're thinking about
what they're going to say
um i'll shorten that up i'll tighten
that up i'll eliminate the um and then
i'll clip
i'll split the clip before and after
they do that and i'll bring it together
as well to really clean it up and speed
up the pace
of that episode for show me the crypto
which is the other podcast i work on i'm
way less stressed about all of those
things like breath noise and oz and um
i pretty much take the audio quality i
do those four steps i talked about at
the beginning
but then i pretty much leave it unless a
guest
said something completely wrong or they
had a huge gap then i'll try to tighten
that up a little bit but otherwise
i'm more focused on the video making
sure that the video quality looks good
the audio is kind of an afterthought
where we're
uploading it for the benefit of the
audience that prefers podcasts to
youtube videos
so it's not the primary focus in that
case again it
it's whatever your preference is
whatever style and whatever amount of
time you have to work on editing audio
because the re max hustle podcast
those episodes they take a few hours to
edit
whereas show me the crypto that is a
quicker process
so it depends on what your needs are
what your timing is
and if you're hiring it out what your
budget is for doing that i hope
this episode on how to edit audio for
your podcast was beneficial
make sure you subscribe to my channel
hit that notifications bar i'm going to
be doing
other eight part series did i say
notifications bar
notifications bell i'm going to be doing
other eight part series throughout the
year on various communications topics so
you don't want to miss those
if you liked this video hit that thumbs
up thank you so much for watching i
really appreciate it